README.md, before:

# DevSecOps Guidance

## Introduction

The documentation in this repository is meant to guide engineers through adding DevSecOps practices to their workflow.  In some scenarios third party tooling is required in order to achieve the scenario.  We have tried many tools out in these scenarios and our selected tools are simply a recommendation but typically the scenario can be fulfilled with a variety of tools that offer similar functionality and capabilities.

## Scenarios covered

- [Credential Scanning](./Scenarios/CredentialScanning/README.md)
- [Container/Dependency Scanning](./Scenarios/DependencyContainerScanning/README.md)
- [Enforce Organizational Security](./Scenarios/EnforceOrgSecurityPolicy/README.md)
- [Penetration Testing](./Scenarios/PenetrationTesting/README.md)
- [Secret Management](./Scenarios/SecretManagement/README.md)
- [Setup](./Scenarios/Setup/Whitesource.md)
- [Static Code Analysis](./Scenarios/StaticCodeAnalysis/README.md)

## Licensing

Please note that some of the components used in these scenarios are third party components that may require licensing from the product vendor. Unless expressly stated otherwise, none of the third party products used here are an endorsement, they serve merely as examples. Independent evaluation should be conducted to find the product mix that supports your goals and meets your budget 

## Code Contributions

### TODO Move repos to common location and publish

## How To Contribute

### TODO: Explain how other users and developers can contribute to make your code better.

Commit message:

Adding licensing and contact information to repo

README.md, after:

# DevSecOps Guidance

## Introduction

The documentation in this repository is meant to guide engineers through adding DevSecOps practices to their workflow.  In some scenarios third party tooling is required in order to achieve the scenario.  We have tried many tools out in these scenarios and our selected tools are simply a recommendation but typically the scenario can be fulfilled with a variety of tools that offer similar functionality and capabilities.

## Scenarios covered

- [Credential Scanning](./Scenarios/CredentialScanning/README.md)
- [Container/Dependency Scanning](./Scenarios/DependencyContainerScanning/README.md)
- [Enforce Organizational Security](./Scenarios/EnforceOrgSecurityPolicy/README.md)
- [Penetration Testing](./Scenarios/PenetrationTesting/README.md)
- [Secret Management](./Scenarios/SecretManagement/README.md)
- [Setup](./Scenarios/Setup/Whitesource.md)
- [Static Code Analysis](./Scenarios/StaticCodeAnalysis/README.md)

## Licensing

Please note that some of the components used in these scenarios are third party components that may require licensing from the product vendor. Unless expressly stated otherwise, none of the third party products used here are an endorsement, they serve merely as examples. Independent evaluation should be conducted to find the product mix that supports your goals and meets your budget. Should you require a license for the purposes of conducting a customer hackathon or for demonstration, please refer to  [Component Licensing Information ](./Scenarios/ComponentLicensingInfo/README.md)

## Code Contributions

### TODO Move repos to common location and publish

## How To Contribute

### TODO: Explain how other users and developers can contribute to make your code better.
