Scenarios/CredentialScanning/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

Once you have installed the extension into the org from the marketplace, you can start to add components into the pipeline.  At a minimum, yYou need to add the following four components in order to have an effective pipeline.

- CredScan
  - You can use a suppression file if you have created one.  See [Suppressions](./Suppressions.md) for guidance.  This is also where you enable custom searchers and can tune execution parameters.

- Create Security Analysis Report
  - Ensure CredScan is checked under tools parameter

- Publish Security Analysis Logs
  - Ensure CredScan is checked under tools parameter

- Post Analysis
  - Ensure CredScan is checked under tools parameter

![CredScan basic pipeline](./images/CredScan_Pipeline_Components.png)

## External Links

- [CredScan Install](https://secdevtools.azurewebsites.net/helpcredscan.html)

- [Post Analysis Setup](https://secdevtools.azurewebsites.net/helpPostAnalysis.html)

## Internal Links

- [1eswiki](https://www.1eswiki.com/wiki/CredScan_Azure_DevOps_Build_Task)

- [CESec Engineering](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/CESecEngineering/CredScan/CredScan%20Wiki/Home.aspx)

Commit message:

unde removal of policay enforcement in Credscan doc

Scenarios/CredentialScanning/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

Once you have installed the extension into the org from the marketplace, you can start to add components into the pipeline.  At a minimum, yYou need to add the following four components in order to have an effective pipeline.

- CredScan
  - You can use a suppression file if you have created one.  See [Suppressions](./Suppressions.md) for guidance.  This is also where you enable custom searchers and can tune execution parameters.

- Create Security Analysis Report
  - Ensure CredScan is checked under tools parameter

- Publish Security Analysis Logs
  - Ensure CredScan is checked under tools parameter

- Post Analysis
  - Ensure CredScan is checked under tools parameter

![CredScan basic pipeline](./images/CredScan_Pipeline_Components.png)

**NOTE: Microsoft tenants only** - If you are working in a Microsoft only tenant, you can enforce secrets scan on push with internal credscan version of extesion.  If you are installing the extension using your MSFT account in an AZDO org backed by MSFT Internal AD this is what you get.   once CredScan is installed you can also prevent users from pushing code with credentials to the repo by enabling ```Check for Credentials and Other Secrets``` (_Screenshot Below_)

![Check for Credentials and Other Secrets](./images/Repo_Settings.png)

External AzDo tenants can accomplish the same using [pipeline decorators](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/extend/develop/add-pipeline-decorator?view=azure-devops).

## External Links

- [CredScan Install](https://secdevtools.azurewebsites.net/helpcredscan.html)

- [Post Analysis Setup](https://secdevtools.azurewebsites.net/helpPostAnalysis.html)

## Internal Links

- [1eswiki](https://www.1eswiki.com/wiki/CredScan_Azure_DevOps_Build_Task)

- [CESec Engineering](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/CESecEngineering/CredScan/CredScan%20Wiki/Home.aspx)
